.TH gnash 1 "$Date: 2007/08/26 20:56:50 $" "$Author: nihilus $" "GNU Flash Player" \" -*- $Id: gnash.1,v 1.8 2007/08/26 20:56:50 nihilus Exp $ -*-
.SH NAME
gnash \- GNU Flash Player
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnash 
[OPTION]... [FILE]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR gnash 
is a GNU project to create a free software player and web browser 
(Mozilla-based and Konqueror) plugin for the Adobe Flash format. Currently the 
player can play Flash files, called SWF, up to version 7. Most other free 
software Flash players can only play up to SWF 4.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\-h \--help
Print usage info.
.TP 
\-s factor
Scale the movie up/down by the specified factor.
.TP 
\-c
Produce a core file instead of letting SDL trap it
.TP 
\-d num
Number of milli\-seconds to delay in main loop
.TP 
\-v
Be verbose; i.e. print log messages to stdout
.TP 
\-va
Be verbose about movie Actions
.TP 
\-vp
Be verbose about parsing the movie
.TP 
\-m bias
Specify the texture LOD bias (float, default is \-1.0)
.TP
\-x ID
X11 Window ID for display
.TP
\-w
Produce the disk based debug log
.TP
\-j width
Set window width
.TP
\-k height
Set window height
.TP 
\-1
Play once; exit when/if movie reaches the last frame
.TP 
\-r [0|1|2|3]
0 disables renderering and sound (good for batch tests)

1 enables rendering & disables sound 

2 enables sound & disables rendering

3 enables both rendering & sound (default)
.TP 
\-t sec
Timeout and exit after the specified number of seconds
.TP 
\-b bits
Bit depth of output window (16 or 32, default is 16)
.TP 
\-u url
Set "real" url of the movie (useful for downloaded movies)
.TP 
\-U url
Set "base" url for this run (used to resolve relative urls, defaults to movie 
url)
.TP 
\-P param
Set parameter (ie. "FlashVars=A=1&b=2")
.TP 
\--version
Print 
\fBgnash\fP's version number and exit
.SH KEYS
.TP 
CTRL\-Q
Quit/Exit
.TP 
CTRL\-W
Quit/Exit
.TP 
ESC
Quit/Exit
.TP 
CTRL\-P
Toggle Pause
.TP 
CTRL\-R 
Restart the movie
.TP 
CTRL\-[ or kp\-
Step back one frame
.TP 
CTRL\-] or kp+
Step forward one frame
.TP 
CTRL\-B
Toggle background color
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT"
The configuration file, .gnashrc, contains default settings which will
be used by Gnash when running standalone or as a browser plugin.  Any
command line options override these values.

The configuration file contains keywords that accept three types of
values: on/off, integer, and colon-separated hostname lists for access
control.
.TP
.B localdomain [ on/off ]
If set to on, Gnash will only load movies from the local domain.
Defaults to off.
.TP
.B
localhost [ on/off ]
If set to on, Gnash will only load movies from localhost.  Defaults to
off.

.TP
.B whitelist [ access list ]
A list of hostnames, separated by colons.  This is an explicit list of
hosts which are always allowed to load movies in Gnash.  Any hosts not
on the list will be denied.  Use this list if you would like to run
gnash with a default deny policy.

.TP
.B blacklist [ access list ]
A list of hostnames, separated by colons.  This is an explicit list of
hosts which are never allowed to load movies in Gnash.  Any hosts not
on the list will be allowed.  Use this list if you would like to run
gnash with a default allow policy.

.TP
.B delay [ integer ]
Gnash uses a timer based event mechanism to advance frames at a steady
rate. This lets one override the default delay in Gnash to play a
movie slower or faster.

.TP
.B
verbosity [ integer ]
Specifies the debug level.  Higher values increase verbosity; a value
of zero disables debug output altogether.

.TP
.B
MalformedSWFVerbosity [ on/off ]
Controls whether malformed SWF errors should be printed.

.TP
.B
ASCodingErrorsVerbosity [ on/off ]
Controls whether ActionScript coding errors should be printed.

.TP
.B
debuglog <path>
Specifies an alternate name and location for the debug logfile.  The
default is gnash-dbg.log in Gnash's current working directory.

.TP
.B
writelog [ on | off ] 
Controls where debug output will be directed.  If set to on,
output is written to debuglog; otherwise, output is written to
standard error.

.TP
.B
sound [ on | off ]
Controls whether sound is enabled in the standalone player.  Defaults
to on.

.TP
.B
pluginsound [ on | off ]
Controls whether sound is enabled in the plugin.  Defaults to on.

.TP
.B
EnableExtensions [ on | off ] 
Controls whether extensions will be enabled.  Defaults to off.

.TP
.B
StartStopped [ on | off ]
Controls the GUI startup behavior.  If set to on, movies must be
explicitly started in order to play.  This is particularly useful for
the plugin.  Off by default.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B ~/.gnashrc
Contains user settings which will be used by Gnash when running
standalone or as a browser plugin.  Any command line options will
override these values.

.TP
.B gnash-dbg.log
If writelog is set to on, gnash will log debug output to this file,
Its location may be set with the debuglog keyword in the user's
.gnashrc.  By default, it is located in Gnash's
current working directory.

.SH "BUGS"
The best way to report a bug is to use the form at
http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=gnash.  
The reason for this is that you will then be able to track progress in
fixing the problem. Other comments about \fBgnash\fP(1) in general can be sent to the 
.I gnash
mailing list.  To join the list, send email to 
.IR gnash-request@gnu.org .
